---
layout: post
title: How Deep Down the Rabbit Hole?
---

This is the very question I find myself commonly asking when diving into new concepts and projects. It didn't take me long to realize in software development that there is always more to know, a finer grain of detail to drill into, my greatest mind-fuck. Do I know enough? Would learning this make it better? Do I need to know this? These questions come in infinite variations and I believe the key lies somewhere between the considerations of time and value.

When starting my mentorship at Bloc I worked full time with brutally long commutes. Being result oriented, I found myself somewhat demoralized due to not being able to fully immerse myself in the curriculum. When learning to program, I felt like every second of my life needed to be used intelligently, I wanted to work smart because I "thought" I didn't have the time to work hard. So is smart getting the project completed quickly and correctly, but with a foggy understanding of the concepts? Or is smart taking the extra time to understand concepts inside and out? I don't believe there is a right answer, it all comes back to value. What is most valuable to me at this time? What is valuable to the stakeholders? Things need to be kept in perspective, which may be difficult. I was lucky enough to have my mentor, Mike, keep me focused on the right things.

I think going down the rabbit hole can largely be associated with scope. Scope is still something like I pretend like I know what it is, but once I'm in the depths of a project, the scope many times takes on new meaning. "The project looks good, but maybe I should add this one last thing. Oh, to add that I just need to learn a little about this." Then I find myself reading Stack Overflow questions for hours on topics I don't really need to know, to learn how to implement functionality that isn't necessary. Did I just waste my time? With a more refreshed outlook on my explorations down the rabbit hole, I don't feel it right to look at different these rabbit hole journeys as good nor bad, but as some being better than others. All journeys ended with a lesson to be learned and a certain amount of value to be mined.    

   