---
layout: post
title: My First Alexa Idea - Weight Bot
---

When coming up with an idea to release to the masses, I've heard it's good to put yourself in someone else's shoes and think of a particular problem to solve affecting thousands, or possibly millions of people. For this project, I decided to do something special, I was going to put myself in my own shoes. I wanted to come up with something that I could and would use on a daily basis. I also needed to make sure the idea was practical based on the point I'm at in my development career. It shouldn't be another template, but this time on cat facts. I also don't think I'm at the point to make something complex like a skill to make cryptocurrency trades using voice either. I decided to automate the first thing I do everyday, which is weighing myself and recording it, then the idea of Weight Bot was born.

Now a weight tracker skill is not the most original thing out there. Just off a quick Alexa Skills Store search I see about 4 weight tracking skills and I also know FitBit has integration with Alexa. After looking through some of these skills they either seemed cluttered with commands and features or simply didn't do what I wanted from a weight tracking skill. I use Alexa to make my life simpler and more efficient and that's what I wanted from a weight tracking skill. All I wanted was to store my starting weight and then for following weigh-ins I would have summary of weight lost/gained since my initial weigh-in and weight lost/gained since last week. Two data points, that's it. These two data points give everything I need, my short term and long term weight summaries. I don't need reports, trends, step counts, or even weight goals.

I decided to name this skill Weight Bot so I could use the launch word "tell". This seemed like a very natural way to have a robot record my weight. "Alexa, tell Weight Bot my weight is 150 lbs." That's should be the only thing you should need to say for the day. Other launch words like launch, start, resume, and run seem like words you'd use to interact with a video game console. I want interactions with my skill to sound like you're talking to one of Alexa's multiple personalities, making the experience feel more like a start to a conversation.

My intent schema should be pretty straight forward. I'm going to have an intent to record the weight. I will use Amazon's built in slot "AMAZON.NUMBER" to capture this number and I haven't yet decided, but I also might incorporate a date to set your weight for different dates. I want to add functionality to change your starting weight if you'd like to change the marker used for long term weight summaries. I may also use a slot so multiple people can use Alexa to track weight, but I don't believe this will be included in the first iteration of this project. This project will also be my first time working with Amazon's database, DynamoDB, so I can store weight information. 

Now it's time to put my head down and start learning, tinkering, testing, and failing my way to a completed skill. I'll check back in soon.                  